SIG: initial commit for planner sig (#96)
pingcap/community: special-interest-groups/sig-planner/roles-and-organization-management.md

# Planner SIG Roles and Organization Management

## Join and Promotion

### Join

The minimal requirement for contributors to join the Planner SIG is to have
the **Active Contributor** community role in the planner/statistics package.

### Promotion

#### From `Contributor` to `Active Contributor`

Requirements:

* Have at least 3 PRs merged in the planner/statistics package within one year.

> * Nominated by at least 2 Planner SIG Reviewers, Committer or Maintainer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Nominated by at least 2 Planner SIG Reviewers or role above.
```

#### From `Active Contributor` to `Reviewer`

Requirements:

> * Have at least 10 PRs merged in the planner/statistics package within one year.

Reviewer 2: How about 20?

Author: One more requirement about the number of valuable issues too.

* Nominated by at least 2 Committers or 2 Maintainers.

#### From `Reviewer` to `Committer`

Requirements:

> * Have at least 30 PRs merged in the planner/statistics package within one year.

Reviewer 2: how about 40 or 50?

Author: Add one more requirement that there must be enough valuable issues fixed by him/her.

* Have reviewed at least 15 PRs in the planner/statistics package within one year.

> * Nominated by at least 2 Committers or Maintainers.

Reviewer: The promotion for reviewer to committer should not conflict with the [TiKV community membership](https://github.com/tikv/community/blob/master/community-membership.md), committer must have approval by 2 maintainers or above

Author: It's copied from sig-expr. So i think @qw4990 should fix that one too?

## Join and Promotion

We mainly follow the instructions in [TiDB Developer Group](../../architecture/README.md#tidb-developer-group).
It lists common requirements, responsibilities and privileges of each role in developer group.

### Join

You are welcomed to be a [contributor](../../architecture/README.md#contributor) once one of your pr about planner is merged.
To have a discusstion with us, just join our slack channel #sig-planner in https://pingcap.com/tidbslack.

### Promotion

#### Be Promoted to [`Active Contributor`](../../architecture/README.md#active-contributor)

SIG Specific Requirements:

* Joined the sig-planner slack channel.
* Have at least 5 PRs merged in the planner/statistics package within one year.

#### Be promoted to [`Reviewer`](../../architecture/README.md#reviewer)

SIG Specific Requirements:

* Have at least 10 PRs merged in the planner/statistics package within one year.
* Fix at least 2 issues whose difficulty is medium or above.

#### Be promoted to [`Committer`](../../architecture/README.md#committer)

SIG Specific Requirements:

* Have at least 20 PRs merged in the planner/statistics package within one year.

> * Fix at least 10 issues whose difficulty is medium or above.

Reviewer 2: Can we reduce the number of solved medium issues? It's too high, which makes a huge gap between `reviewer` and `committer` 😂

* Fix at least 2 issues whose difficulty is hard.
* Have reviewed at least 20 PRs in the planner/statistics package within one year.

## Quit and Demotion

### Active Contributor

**Automatically retired**:

* No contribution to the planner package within one year.

**How to rejoin**:

* Should meet the requirements for Active Contributor again.

### Reviewer

**Automatically demoted**:

> For a Reviewer to be demoted to an Active Contributor,  he/she must satisfy at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a Reviewer to be demoted to an Active Contributor, he/she must satisfy at
```

least 1 of the following conditions:

* Haven't reviewed or merged any PR in the planner/statistics package within 3 months.
* Haven't appeared in the SIG meeting without any reason for 3 times continuously.
* At least 2 Committers or Maintainers agree that the Reviewer is not qualified.

**How to retain**:

* Have reviewed or merged 5 PRs within 1 month.

### Voluntarily Quit or Demote

> Please email to [Cui Yiding](mailto:cuiyiding@pingcap.com) if you are

Reviewer 2: please use the email of Yanqing
